('You should carefully consider the following risk factors, in addition to '
 'those discussed elsewhere in this report, in evaluating our Company, its '
 'business, its industry and prospects.')
- customer_orientation

('Because we may never earn significant revenues from our mine operations, our '
 'business may fail.')
- taxes

('If our business plan is not successful and we are not able to operate '
 'profitably, then our securities may become worthless and investors may lose '
 'all of their investment in our Company.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('We recognize that if we are unable to generate significant revenues from the '
 'exploration and exploitation of our mineralized materials in the future, we '
 'will not be able to earn profits or continue operations.')
- taxes

('There is no history upon which to base any assumption as to the likelihood '
 'that we will prove successful, and we can provide no assurance that we will '
 'generate significant revenues or ever achieve profitability.')
- supply_chain_problems

('If we are unsuccessful in addressing these risks, our business will fail and '
 'investors may lose all of their investment in our Company.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('Transportation difficulties and weather interruptions may affect and delay '
 'proposed mining operations and impact our business plans.')
- natural_disaster

('If we are unable to secure exploration supplies we may have to delay our '
 'anticipated business operations.')
- customer_orientation

('Competition and unforeseen limited sources of supplies needed for our '
 'proposed exploration work could result in occasional shortages of supplies '
 'of certain products, equipment or materials.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('We may not be able to generate a profit on the sale of gold or other '
 'minerals because we have limited control over our costs and have no ability '
 'to control the market prices.')
- customer_orientation

('The total cash costs of production at any location are frequently subject to '
 'great variation from year to year as a result of a number of factors, such '
 'as the changing composition of ore grade or mineralized material production, '
 'and metallurgy and exploration activities in response to the physical shape '
 'and location of the ore body or deposit.')
- customer_orientation

('A material increase in production costs or a decrease in the price of gold '
 'or other minerals could adversely affect our ability to earn a profit on the '
 'sale of gold or other minerals.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('Substantial expenditures are required to acquire existing gold properties, '
 'to establish ore reserves through drilling and analysis, to develop '
 'metallurgical processes to extract metal from the ore, and in the case of '
 'new properties, to develop the processing facilities and infrastructure at '
 'any site chosen for mineral exploration.')
- customer_orientation, hiring_employees, litigation, supply_chain_problems

('There can be no assurance that any gold reserves or mineralized material '
 'that may be discovered or acquired in the future, if any, will be in '
 'sufficient quantities or of adequate grade to justify commercial operations '
 'or that the funds required for mineral production operation can be obtained '
 'on a timely or reasonable basis, if at all.')
- customer_orientation

('Gold and silver prices can fluctuate widely and may be affected by numerous '
 'factors, such as expectations for inflation, levels of interest rates, '
 'currency exchange rates, central bank sales, forward selling or other '
 'hedging activities, demand for precious metals, global or regional political '
 'and economic crises and production costs in major gold-producing regions, '
 'such as but not limited to South Africa and the former Soviet Union.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Since our business consists of exploring for, producing from, or acquiring '
 'gold and silver prospects, the drop in the price of gold or silver will '
 'negatively affect our asset values, cash flows, potential revenues and '
 'profits.')
- customer_orientation

('Our potential future revenues are expected to be derived from the production '
 'and sale of gold and silver from these properties or from the sale of some '
 'of these properties.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('There can be no assurance that we will be able to acquire such properties '
 'when competing against competitors with substantially greater financial '
 'resources than we have.')
- customer_orientation

('Our mining production depends on the availability of sufficient water '
 'supplies.')
- supply_chain_problems

('Continuous production at our mines is dependent on our ability to maintain '
 'our water rights and claims, and the continuing physical availability of the '
 'water supplies.')
- carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('The capital expenditures and time required to develop and explore our '
 'properties, including the Lucerne Mine and the Dayton Resource area, are '
 'considerable and changes in costs, construction schedules or both, can '
 'adversely affect project economics and expected production and '
 'profitability.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Operations in which we have direct or indirect interests will be subject to '
 'all the hazards and risks normally incidental to exploration and production '
 'of gold and other metals, any of which could result in work stoppages, '
 'damage to property and possible environmental damage.')
- natural_disaster, litigation, labor_issues

('As a result of public concern about the real or perceived detrimental '
 'effects of economic globalization and global climate impacts, businesses '
 'generally, and corporations in natural resource industries, face increasing '
 'public scrutiny of their activities.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, carbon_emissions

('These businesses are under pressure to demonstrate that, as they seek to '
 'generate satisfactory returns on investment to shareholders, other '
 'stakeholders, including employees, governments, and communities surrounding '
 'operations benefit and will continue to benefit from their commercial '
 'activities.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('The potential consequences of these pressures include reputational damage, '
 'legal suits, increasing social investment obligations and pressure to '
 'increase taxes and royalties payable to governments and communities.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Environmental legislation is evolving in the United States generally, and '
 'Nevada specifically, in a manner that may require stricter standards and '
 'enforcement, increased fines and penalties for non-compliance, more '
 'stringent environmental assessments of proposed projects, and a heightened '
 'degree of responsibility for companies and their officers, directors, and '
 'employees.')
- litigation, carbon_emissions

('Nevada state law requires our Nevada projects to hold Nevada water pollution '
 'control permits, which dictate operating controls and closure and '
 'post-closure requirements directed at protecting surface and ground water.')
- carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('A number of governments or governmental bodies have introduced or are '
 'contemplating regulatory changes in response to the potential impacts of '
 'climate change that are viewed as the result of emissions from the '
 'combustion of carbon-based fuels.')
- carbon_emissions

('In December 2009, the EPA issued an endangerment finding under the U.S. '
 'Clean Air Act that current and projected concentrations of certain mixed '
 'greenhouse gases, including carbon dioxide, in the atmosphere threaten the '
 'public health and welfare.')
- carbon_emissions

('Legislation and increased regulation and requirements regarding climate '
 'change could impose increased costs on us and our suppliers, including '
 'increased energy, capital equipment, environmental monitoring and reporting '
 'and other costs to comply with such regulations.')
- carbon_emissions

('Extreme weather events (such as increased frequency or intensity of '
 'hurricanes or prolonged drought) have the potential to disrupt operations at '
 'our projects.')
- natural_disaster

('Where appropriate, our projects have developed emergency plans for managing '
 'extreme weather conditions; however, extended disruptions to supply lines '
 'due to extreme weather could result in interruption of activities at the '
 'project sites, delay or increase the cost of construction of the projects, '
 'or otherwise adversely affect our business.')
- customer_orientation, natural_disaster, carbon_emissions

('Our insurance and surety bonds against environmental risks are limited as to '
 'the maximum protection against potential liability for pollution or other '
 'hazards as a result of the disposal of waste products occurring from '
 'exploration and production.')
- customer_orientation

('Any submission or significant modification to a plan of operations may also '
 'require the completion of an environmental assessment or Environmental '
 'Impact Statement prior to approval.')
- carbon_emissions

('Due to the nature of our business, we may be subject to a variety of '
 'regulatory investigations, claims, lawsuits and other proceedings in the '
 'ordinary course of our business.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, litigation

('The results of these legal proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty '
 'due to the uncertainty inherent in litigation, including the effects of '
 'discovery of new evidence or advancement of new legal theories, the '
 'difficulty of predicting decisions of judges and juries and the possibility '
 'that decisions may be reversed on appeal.')
- litigation

('Title claims against our properties could require us to compensate parties '
 'making such claims, if successful, and divert managements time from '
 'operations.')
- litigation

('The validity of an unpatented mineral claim, in terms of both its location '
 'and its maintenance, depends on strict compliance with a complex body of '
 'federal and state, statutory and decisional law.')
- litigation

('Although we have attempted to acquire satisfactory title to our properties, '
 'we have not obtained title opinions or title insurance with respect to the '
 'acquisition of the unpatented mineral claims.')
- litigation

('The investigation and resolution of title issues would divert managements '
 'time from ongoing exploration programs.')
- litigation

('Cybersecurity incidents are increasing in frequency, evolving in nature and '
 'include, but are not limited to, installation of malicious software, '
 'unauthorized access to data and other electronic security breaches that '
 'could lead to disruptions in systems, unauthorized release of confidential '
 'or otherwise protected information and the corruption of data.')
- natural_disaster

('However, given the unpredictability of the timing, nature and scope of '
 'information technology disruptions, we could be subject to manipulation or '
 'improper use of our systems and networks or financial losses from remedial '
 'actions, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our financial '
 'condition and results of operations.')
- natural_disaster

('Our stock is a penny stock and trading of our stock may be restricted by the '
 'SECs penny stock regulations, which may limit a stockholders ability to buy '
 'and sell our stock.')
- customer_orientation

('Our securities are covered by the penny stock rules, which impose additional '
 'sales practice requirements on broker-dealers that sell to persons other '
 'than established customers and accredited investors.')
- customer_orientation

('The penny stock rules (including Rule 15g-9) require a broker-dealer, prior '
 'to a transaction in a penny stock not otherwise exempt from the rules, to '
 'deliver a standardized risk disclosure document in a form prepared by the '
 'SEC, which provides information about penny stocks and the nature and level '
 'of risks in the penny stock market.')
- litigation, supply_chain_problems

('The broker-dealer also must provide the customer with current bid and offer '
 'quotations for the penny stock, the compensation of the broker-dealer and '
 'its salesperson in the transaction, and monthly account statements showing '
 'the market value of each penny stock held in the customers account.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('The bid and offer quotations, and the broker-dealer and salesperson '
 'compensation information, must be given to the customer orally or in writing '
 'prior to effecting the transaction and must be given to the customer in '
 'writing before or with the customers confirmation.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('In addition, the penny stock rules require that, prior to a transaction in a '
 'penny stock not otherwise exempt from these rules, the broker-dealer must '
 'make a special written determination that the penny stock is a suitable '
 'investment for the purchaser and receive the purchasers written agreement to '
 'the transaction.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, litigation

('The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) sales practice '
 'requirements may also limit a stockbrokers ability to buy or sell our stock.')
- customer_orientation

('In addition to the penny stock rules promulgated by the SEC, FINRA has '
 'adopted rules that require that in recommending an investment to a customer, '
 'a broker-dealer must have reasonable grounds for believing that the '
 'investment is suitable for that customer.')
- customer_orientation, litigation

('Prior to recommending speculative low priced securities to their '
 'non-institutional customers, broker-dealers must make reasonable efforts to '
 'obtain information about the customers financial status, tax status, '
 'investment objectives, and other information.')
- customer_orientation

('The FINRA requirements make it more difficult for broker-dealers to '
 'recommend that their customers buy our common stock, which may limit your '
 'ability to buy or sell our stock and have an adverse effect on the market '
 'for our shares.')
- customer_orientation

('The market price of the Companys common stock may fluctuate significantly '
 'from time to time as a result of many factors, including: If securities or '
 'industry analysts do not publish research or publish inaccurate or '
 'unfavorable research about our business, our stock price and trading volume '
 'could decline.')
- customer_orientation

('The trading market for our common stock will depend in part on the research '
 'and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our '
 'business.')
- customer_orientation

('If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of us or fail to publish '
 'reports on us regularly, demand for our common stock could decrease, which '
 'could cause our stock price and trading volume to decline.')
- customer_orientation

('Any future determination to pay cash dividends will be at the discretion of '
 'our Board, subject to compliance with applicable law, our organizational '
 'documents (including the certificates of designations for our preferred '
 'stock, which prohibit cash dividends to common stockholders without the '
 'consent of preferred stockholders) and any contractual provisions, including '
 'under agreements for indebtedness we may incur, that restrict or limit our '
 'ability to pay dividends, and will depend upon, among other factors, our '
 'results of operations, financial condition, earnings, capital requirements '
 'and other factors that our Board deems relevant.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('The certificates of designations of our preferred stock substantially limit '
 'the ability of the Company to incur debt, issue securities, enter into '
 'merger or acquisition transactions, redeem capital stock, or pay dividends '
 'to common shareholders, among other things.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Mr. John V. Winfield, the Chairman of our Board of Directors, and entities '
 'that he controls (the Winfield Group), through its ownership of common '
 'stock, preferred shares and warrants of the Company, owns approximately '
 '32.2% of the economic interests of the Companys capital stock and '
 'approximately 68.8% of the voting security interests, in each case on an as '
 'converted basis, as of December 31, 2014.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('If an event of default occurs under the Operating Agreement, the additional '
 'capital contributions could be accelerated and the entire unpaid amount of '
 'the Companys capital contribution, up to the aggregate of 30,188 shares of '
 'Series A-1 Preferred Stock (approximately 46.4 million shares of common '
 'stock as converted) issuable under the Operating Agreement, could become '
 'issuable immediately at the option of Northern Comstock LLC.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('New investors in other equity securities issued by the Company in the future '
 'may also have rights, preferences and privileges senior to the Companys '
 'current stockholders that may adversely impact its current stockholders.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Many of these private equity investments are inherently risky because the '
 "companies' businesses may never develop, and we may incur losses related to "
 'these investments.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('Such risk factors include the effects of possible disruption to the '
 'expansion of our production capacity, permit requirements, debt incurred or '
 'capital stock issued to make such acquisitions, the impact of any such '
 'acquisition on our financial results, negative customer reaction to any such '
 "acquisition and our ability to successfully integrate an acquired company's "
 'operations with our operations.')
- customer_orientation

('If the purchase price of any acquired businesses exceeds the current fair '
 'values of the net tangible assets of such acquired businesses, we would be '
 'required to record material amounts of goodwill or other intangible assets, '
 'which could result in significant impairment and amortization expense in '
 'future periods.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('These charges, in addition to the results of operations of such acquired '
 'businesses and potential restructuring costs associated with an acquisition, '
 'could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition '
 'and results of operations.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('The amount of cash we can distribute to holders of our common units or other '
 'partnership securities each quarter principally depends on the amount of '
 'cash we generate from our operations, which will fluctuate from quarter to '
 'quarter based on, among other things: In addition, the actual amount of cash '
 'available for distribution will depend on other factors, including: Because '
 'of these and other factors, we may not have sufficient available cash to pay '
 'a specific level of cash distributions to our unitholders.')
- supply_chain_problems, taxes

('As a result, we may make cash distributions during periods when we record '
 'net losses and may be unable to make cash distributions during periods when '
 'we record net income.')
- taxes

('We may issue an unlimited number of limited partner interests, on terms and '
 'conditions established by our managing general partner, without the consent '
 'of our unitholders, which will dilute your ownership interest in us and may '
 'increase the risk that we will not have sufficient available cash to '
 'maintain or increase our per unit distribution level.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('The issuance by us of additional common units or other equity securities of '
 'equal or senior rank will have the following effects: The market price of '
 'our common units could be adversely affected by sales of substantial amounts '
 'of our common units in the public markets, including sales by our existing '
 'unitholders.')
- customer_orientation

('We do not know whether any such sales would be made in the public market or '
 'in private placements, nor do we know what impact such potential or actual '
 'sales would have on our unit price in the future.')
- customer_orientation

('Accordingly, as interest rates rise, the ability of investors to obtain '
 'higher risk-adjusted rates of return by purchasing government-backed debt '
 'securities may cause a corresponding decline in demand for riskier '
 'investments generally, including yield-based equity investments such as '
 'publicly traded limited partnership interests.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Reduced demand for our common units resulting from investors seeking other '
 'more favorable investment opportunities may cause the trading price of our '
 'common units to decline.')
- customer_orientation

('This is because our managing general partner can exercise significant '
 'influence over our business activities, including our cash distribution '
 'policy, acquisition strategy and business risk profile.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('Our unitholders do not elect our managing general partner or vote on our '
 'managing general partners officers or directors.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Unlike the holders of common stock in a corporation, our unitholders have '
 'only limited voting rights on matters affecting our business and, therefore, '
 'limited ability to influence managements decisions regarding our business.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('Unitholders did not elect our managing general partner and will have no '
 'right to elect our managing general partner on an annual or other continuing '
 'basis.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('In addition, if our unitholders are dissatisfied with the performance of our '
 'managing general partner, they will have little ability to remove our '
 'general partner.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Furthermore, unitholders voting rights are also restricted by a provision in '
 'our partnership agreement that provides that any units held by a person that '
 'owns 20.0% or more of any class of units then outstanding, other than our '
 'managing general partner and its affiliates, cannot be voted on any matter.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('The control of our managing general partner may be transferred to a '
 'third-party without unitholder consent.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Our managing general partner may transfer its general partner interest in us '
 'to a third-party in a merger or in a sale of its equity securities without '
 'the consent of our unitholders.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Furthermore, there is no restriction in the partnership agreement on the '
 'ability of the members of our managing general partner to sell or transfer '
 'all or part of their ownership interest in our managing general partner to a '
 'third-party.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('The new owner or owners of our managing general partner would then be in a '
 'position to replace the directors and officers of our managing general '
 'partner and control the decisions made and actions taken by the Board of '
 'Directors and officers.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('If at any time less than 20.0% of our outstanding common units are held by '
 'persons other than our general partners and their affiliates, our managing '
 'general partner will have the right to acquire all, but not less than all, '
 'of those units at a price no less than their then-current market price.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Prior to making any distributions to our unitholders, we will reimburse our '
 'general partners and their affiliates for all expenses they have incurred on '
 'our behalf.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('For additional information, please see Item 7. Managements Discussion and '
 'Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of OperationsRelated-Party '
 'Transactions, Administrative Services, and Item 8. Financial Statements and '
 'Supplementary DataNote 19. Related-Party Transactions.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('As a limited partner in a partnership organized under Delaware law, you '
 'could be held liable for our obligations to the same extent as a general '
 'partner if you participate in the control of our business.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Our general partners generally have unlimited liability for the obligations '
 'of the partnership, except for those contractual obligations of the '
 'partnership that are expressly made without recourse to our general '
 'partners.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Under Delaware law, we may not make a distribution to our unitholders if the '
 'distribution would cause our liabilities to exceed the fair value of our '
 'assets.')
- litigation, taxes

('Delaware law provides that for a period of three years from the date of the '
 'impermissible distribution, partners who received the distribution and who '
 'knew at the time of the distribution that it violated Delaware law will be '
 'liable to the partnership for the distribution amount.')
- litigation, supply_chain_problems, taxes

('Liabilities to partners on account of their partnership interest and '
 'liabilities that are non-recourse to the partnership are not counted for '
 'purposes of determining whether a distribution is permitted.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Our partnership agreement limits our managing general partners fiduciary '
 'duties to our unitholders and restricts the remedies available to '
 'unitholders for actions taken by our general partners that might otherwise '
 'constitute breaches of fiduciary duty.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Our partnership agreement contains provisions that waive or consent to '
 'conduct by our managing general partner and its affiliates and which reduce '
 'the obligations to which our managing general partner would otherwise be '
 'held by state-law fiduciary duty standards.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('The following is a summary of the material restrictions contained in our '
 'partnership agreement on the fiduciary duties owed by our general partners '
 'to the limited partners.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Our partnership agreement: In order to become a limited partner of our '
 'partnership, a common unitholder is required to agree to be bound by the '
 'provisions in the partnership agreement, including the provisions discussed '
 'above.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Some of our executive officers and directors face potential conflicts of '
 'interest in managing our business.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Certain of our executive officers and directors are also officers and/or '
 'directors of AHGP.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('In addition, these overlapping executive officers and directors allocate '
 'their time among us and AHGP.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('These officers and directors face potential conflicts regarding the '
 'allocation of their time, which may adversely affect our business, results '
 'of operations and financial condition.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Our partnership agreement requires our managing general partner to deduct '
 'from operating surplus cash reserves that in its reasonable discretion are '
 'necessary for the proper conduct of our business, to comply with applicable '
 'law or agreements to which we are a party or to provide funds for future '
 'distributions to partners.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Our general partners have conflicts of interest and limited fiduciary '
 'responsibilities, which may permit our general partners to favor their own '
 'interests to the detriment of our unitholders.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Conflicts of interest could arise in the future as a result of relationships '
 'between our general partners and their affiliates, on the one hand, and us, '
 'on the other hand.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('As a result of these conflicts our general partners may favor their own '
 'interests and those of their affiliates over the interests of our '
 'unitholders.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('The nature of these conflicts includes the following considerations: Risks '
 'Related to our Business The current global recession and turmoil in '
 'financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our financial '
 'condition and results of operations.')
- customer_orientation

'The current economic downturn has caused a decrease in demand for electricity.'
- carbon_emissions

('Because we sell most of our coal to electric utilities, any decrease in '
 'demand for electricity may lead to a decline in demand for our coal.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('In addition, the instability of domestic and international financial markets '
 'could cause a lack of capital availability for our customers, also reducing '
 'demand.')
- customer_orientation

('The prices we receive for our production depends upon factors beyond our '
 'control, including: A substantial or extended decline in coal prices could '
 'materially and adversely affect us by decreasing our revenues in the event '
 'that we are not otherwise protected pursuant to the specific terms of our '
 'coal supply agreements.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Competition within the coal industry may adversely affect our ability to '
 'sell coal, and excess production capacity in the industry could put downward '
 'pressure on coal prices.')
- customer_orientation

('We compete with other large coal producers and many small coal producers in '
 'various regions of the U.S. for domestic coal sales.')
- customer_orientation

('Some power plants are fueled by natural gas because of the relatively '
 'cheaper construction costs of such plants compared to coal-fired plants and '
 'because natural gas is a cleaner burning fuel.')
- carbon_emissions

('The domestic electric utility industry accounts for approximately 90% of '
 'domestic coal consumption.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions

('The amount of coal consumed by the domestic electric utility industry is '
 'affected primarily by the overall demand for electricity, environmental and '
 'other governmental regulations, and the price and availability of competing '
 'fuels for power plants such as nuclear, natural gas and fuel oil as well as '
 'alternative sources of energy.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('For example, the recent decline in the price of natural gas has resulted, in '
 'some instances, in utilities increasing natural gas consumption while '
 'decreasing coal consumption.')
- carbon_emissions

('A decrease in coal consumption by the domestic electric utility industry '
 'could adversely affect the price of coal, which could negatively impact our '
 'results of operations and reduce our cash available for distribution.')
- carbon_emissions

('The stability and profitability of our operations could be adversely '
 'affected if our customers do not honor existing contracts or do not extend '
 'existing or enter into new long-term contracts for coal .')
- customer_orientation

('A substantial decrease in the amount of coal sold by us pursuant to '
 'long-term contracts would reduce the certainty of the price and amounts of '
 'coal sold and subject our revenue stream to increased volatility.')
- customer_orientation

('If that were to happen, changes in spot market coal prices would have a '
 'greater impact on our results, and any decreases in the spot market price '
 'for coal could adversely affect our profitability and cash flow.')
- customer_orientation

('In 2008, we sold approximately 94.8% of our sales tonnage under contracts '
 'having a term greater than one year.')
- customer_orientation

('Long-term sales contracts have historically provided a relatively secure '
 'market for the amount of production committed under the terms of the '
 'contracts.')
- customer_orientation

('From time to time industry conditions may make it more difficult for us to '
 'enter into long-term contracts with our electric utility customers, and if '
 'supply exceeds demand in the coal industry, electric utilities may become '
 'less willing to lock in price or quantity commitments for an extended period '
 'of time.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('Accordingly, we may not be able to continue to obtain long-term sales '
 'contracts with reliable customers as existing contracts expire.')
- customer_orientation

('Some of our long-term coal supply agreements contain provisions allowing for '
 'the renegotiation of prices and, in some instances, the termination of the '
 'contract or the suspension of purchases by customers.')
- customer_orientation

('Several of our long-term contracts also contain provisions that allow the '
 'customer to suspend or terminate performance under the contract upon the '
 'occurrence or continuation of certain events that are beyond the customers '
 'reasonable control.')
- customer_orientation

('Extensive environmental laws and regulations affect coal consumers, and have '
 'corresponding effects on the demand for our coal as a fuel source.')
- carbon_emissions

('Federal, state and local laws and regulations extensively regulate the '
 'amount of sulfur dioxide, particulate matter, nitrogen oxides, mercury and '
 'other compounds emitted into the air from coal-fired electric power plants, '
 'which are the ultimate consumers of our coal.')
- carbon_emissions

('These laws and regulations can require significant emission control '
 'expenditures for many coal-fired power plants, and various new and proposed '
 'laws and regulations may require further emission reductions and associated '
 'emission control expenditures.')
- litigation, carbon_emissions

('There is also continuing pressure on state and federal regulators to impose '
 'limits on carbon dioxide emissions from electric power plants, particularly '
 'coal-fired power plants.')
- carbon_emissions

('As a result of these current and proposed laws, regulations and regulatory '
 'initiatives, electricity generators may elect to switch to other fuels that '
 'generate less of these emissions, possibly further reducing demand for our '
 'coal.')
- carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('Please read Item 1. BusinessRegulation and LawsAir Emissions and Carbon '
 'Dioxide Emissions.')
- carbon_emissions

('Increased regulation of greenhouse gas emissions could result in reduced '
 'demand for coal as a fuel source, which would reduce demand for our products '
 'and decrease our revenues.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions

('Recent scientific studies have suggested that emissions of certain gases, '
 'commonly referred to as greenhouse gases and including carbon dioxide, may '
 'be contributing to warming of the Earths atmosphere.')
- carbon_emissions

('Combustion of fossil fuels, such as the coal we produce, results in the '
 'emission of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere.')
- carbon_emissions

('The U.S. Congress is considering legislation to reduce emissions of '
 'greenhouse gases.')
- carbon_emissions

('President Obama has expressed support for legislation to restrict or '
 'regulate emissions of greenhouse gases.')
- carbon_emissions

('More than one-third of the states already have begun implementing legal '
 'measures to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases.')
- carbon_emissions

('In addition, the Supreme Courts holding in 2007 in Massachusetts, et al. v. '
 'EPA that greenhouse gases including carbon dioxide fall under the CAAs '
 'definition of air pollutant may also result in future regulation of carbon '
 'dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions from stationary sources such as '
 'power plants.')
- carbon_emissions

('In July 2008, EPA released an Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking '
 'regarding possible future regulation of greenhouse gas emissions under the '
 'CAA, in response to the Courts decision in Massachusetts, et al. v. EPA.')
- carbon_emissions

('Although the notice did not propose any specific, new regulatory '
 'requirements for greenhouse gases, it indicates that federal regulation of '
 'greenhouse gas emissions could occur in the near future even if Congress '
 'does not adopt new legislation specifically addressing emissions of '
 'greenhouse gases.')
- carbon_emissions

('In addition, there have been an increasing number of challenges and '
 'objections to permits for the construction of new coal-fired power plants '
 'based on concerns over greenhouse gas emissions, and permits for several '
 'proposed new coal-fired power plants have been denied or delayed.')
- carbon_emissions

('Future federal and state initiatives to control carbon dioxide emissions '
 'could result in increased costs associated with coal consumption, such as '
 'costs to install additional controls to reduce carbon dioxide emissions or '
 'costs to purchase emissions reduction credits to comply with future '
 'emissions trading programs.')
- carbon_emissions

('Such increased costs for coal consumption could result in reduced demand for '
 'coal and some customers switching to alternative sources of fuel, which '
 'could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, '
 'and results of operations.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions

('In addition, increased difficulty or inability of our customers to obtain '
 'permits for construction of new or expansion of existing coal-fired power '
 'plants could adversely affect demand for our coal and have an adverse effect '
 'on our business and results of operation.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions

('We depend on a few customers for a significant portion of our revenues, and '
 'the loss of one or more significant customers could affect our ability to '
 'maintain the sales volume and price of the coal we produce.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('During 2008, we derived approximately 46.8% of our total revenues from four '
 'customers and at least 10.0% of our 2008 total revenues from each of the '
 'four.')
- customer_orientation

('If we were to lose any of these customers without finding replacement '
 'customers willing to purchase an equivalent amount of coal on similar terms, '
 'or if these customers were to decrease the amounts of coal purchased or the '
 'terms, including pricing terms, on which they buy coal from us, it could '
 'have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and '
 'results of operations.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Litigation resulting from disputes with our customers may result in '
 'substantial costs, liabilities and loss of revenues.')
- customer_orientation, litigation

('From time to time we have disputes with our customers over the provisions of '
 'long-term coal supply contracts relating to, among other things, coal '
 'pricing, quality, quantity and the existence of specified conditions beyond '
 'our control that suspend performance obligations under the particular '
 'contract.')
- customer_orientation

('Our ability to receive payment for coal sold and delivered depends on the '
 'continued creditworthiness of our customers.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('If the creditworthiness of our customers declines significantly, our '
 'business could be adversely affected.')
- customer_orientation

('In addition, if a customer refuses to accept shipments of our coal for which '
 'they have an existing contractual obligation, our revenues will decrease and '
 'we may have to reduce production at our mines until our customers '
 'contractual obligations are honored.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Prolonged disruption of production at any of our mines would result in a '
 'decrease in our revenues and profitability, which could materially adversely '
 'impact our quarterly or annual results.')
- customer_orientation

('The aggregate maximum limit in the commercial property program is $75.0 '
 'million per occurrence of which, as a result of our participation, we are '
 'responsible for a maximum amount of $11.0 million for each occurrence, '
 'excluding a $1.5 million deductible for property damage, a $5.0 million '
 'aggregate deductible for extra expense and a 60-day waiting period for '
 'business interruption.')
- customer_orientation

('We can make no assurances that we will not experience significant insurance '
 'claims in the future, which as a result of our level of participation in the '
 'commercial property program, could have a material adverse effect on our '
 'business, financial condition, results of operations and ability to purchase '
 'property insurance in the future.')
- customer_orientation

('A shortage of skilled labor may make it difficult for us to maintain labor '
 'productivity and competitive costs and could adversely affect our '
 'profitability.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled '
 'laborers, preferably with at least one year of experience and proficiency in '
 'multiple mining tasks.')
- hiring_employees

('This shortage of experienced coal miners is the result of a significant '
 'percentage of experienced coal miners reaching retirement age, combined with '
 'the difficulty of retaining existing workers in and attracting new workers '
 'to the coal industry.')
- hiring_employees

('If the shortage of experienced labor continues or worsens, it could have an '
 'adverse impact on our labor productivity and costs and our ability to expand '
 'production in the event there is an increase in the demand for our coal, '
 'which could adversely affect our profitability.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Although none of our employees are members of unions, our work force may not '
 'remain union-free in the future.')
- labor_issues

'None of our employees is represented under collective bargaining agreements.'
- labor_issues

('However, all of our work force may not remain union-free in the future, and '
 'proposed legislation such as the Employee Free Choice Act, could, if '
 'enacted, make staying union-free more difficult.')
- labor_issues

('If some or all of our currently union-free operations were to become '
 'unionized, it could adversely affect our productivity and increase the risk '
 'of work stoppages at our mining complexes.')
- labor_issues

('In addition, even if we remain union-free, our operations may still be '
 'adversely affected by work stoppages at unionized companies, particularly if '
 'union workers were to orchestrate boycotts against our operations.')
- labor_issues

('Our mining operations are subject to extensive and costly laws and '
 'regulations, and such current and future laws and regulations could increase '
 'current operating costs or limit our ability to produce coal.')
- litigation

('We are subject to numerous and comprehensive federal, state and local laws '
 'and regulations affecting the coal mining industry, including laws and '
 'regulations pertaining to employee health and safety, permitting and '
 'licensing requirements, air quality standards, water pollution, plant and '
 'wildlife protection, reclamation and restoration of mining properties after '
 'mining is completed, the discharge or release of materials into the '
 'environment, surface subsidence from underground mining and the effects that '
 'mining has on groundwater quality and availability.')
- litigation, carbon_emissions

('Certain of these laws and regulations may impose joint and several strict '
 'liability without regard to fault or legality of the original conduct.')
- litigation

('Failure to comply with these laws and regulations may result in the '
 'assessment of administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition '
 'of remedial liabilities, and the issuance of injunctions limiting or '
 'prohibiting the performance of operations.')
- litigation

('The possibility exists that new laws or regulations may be adopted, or that '
 'judicial interpretations or more stringent enforcement of existing laws and '
 'regulations may occur, in the future that could materially affect our mining '
 'operations, cash flow, and profitability, either through direct impacts such '
 'as new requirements impacting our existing mining operations, or indirect '
 'impacts such as new laws and regulations that discourage or limit our '
 'customers use of coal.')
- customer_orientation, natural_disaster, litigation

('Congress and several state legislatures (including those in Illinois, '
 'Kentucky, West Virginia and Pennsylvania) have passed new laws addressing '
 'mine safety practices and imposing stringent new mine safety and accident '
 'reporting requirements and increased civil and criminal penalties for '
 'violations of mine safety laws.')
- litigation

('In the event current or future litigation contesting the use of Nationwide '
 'Permit 21 is successful, we may be required to apply for individual '
 'discharge permits pursuant to Section 404 of the CWA in areas that would '
 'have otherwise utilized Nationwide Permit 21.')
- hiring_employees

('In addition, lawsuits filed in the federal Southern District of West '
 'Virginia and in the federal Western District of Kentucky have challenged the '
 'Corps of Engineers issuance of certain individual Section 404 permits.')
- litigation

('Fluctuations in transportation costs and the availability or reliability of '
 'transportation could reduce revenues by causing us to reduce our production '
 'or by impairing our ability to supply coal to our customers.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Transportation costs represent a significant portion of the total cost of '
 'coal for our customers and, as a result, the cost of transportation is a '
 'critical factor in a customers purchasing decision.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Increases in transportation costs could make coal a less competitive source '
 'of energy or could make our coal production less competitive than coal '
 'produced from other sources.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Historically, high coal transportation rates from the western coal producing '
 'areas into certain eastern markets limited the use of western coal in those '
 'markets.')
- customer_orientation

('Lower or higher rail rates from the western coal producing areas to markets '
 'served by eastern U.S. coal producers have created major competitive '
 'challenges, as well as opportunities, for eastern coal producers.')
- customer_orientation

('In the event of lower transportation costs, the increased competition could '
 'have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and '
 'results of operations.')
- customer_orientation

('Disruption of transportation services due to weather-related problems, '
 'flooding, drought, accidents, mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, '
 'bottlenecks or other events could temporarily impair our ability to supply '
 'coal to our customers.')
- customer_orientation, natural_disaster, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('Our transportation providers may face difficulties in the future that may '
 'impair our ability to supply coal to our customers, resulting in decreased '
 'revenues.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('If there are disruptions of the transportation services provided by our '
 'primary rail or barge carriers that transport our coal and we are unable to '
 'find alternative transportation providers to ship our coal, our business '
 'could be adversely affected.')
- supply_chain_problems

('It is possible that all states in which our coal is transported by truck may '
 'modify their laws to limit truck weight limits.')
- supply_chain_problems

('Moreover, any acquisition could be dilutive to earnings and distributions to '
 'unitholders and any additional debt incurred to finance an acquisition could '
 'affect our ability to make distributions to unitholders.')
- taxes

('If we are unable to successfully integrate the companies, businesses or '
 'properties we acquire, our profitability may decline and we could experience '
 'a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or results '
 'of operations.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('The unavailability of an adequate supply of coal reserves that can be mined '
 'at competitive costs could cause our profitability to decline.')
- customer_orientation

('Our profitability depends substantially on our ability to mine coal reserves '
 'that have the geological characteristics that enable them to be mined at '
 'competitive costs and to meet the quality needed by our customers.')
- customer_orientation

('We have no reason to believe that there exists any risk of loss of these '
 'leasehold rights given the terms and provisions of the subject leases and '
 'the nature and identity of the third-party lessors; however, in the unlikely '
 'event of any loss of these leasehold rights, operations could be disrupted '
 'or otherwise adversely impacted as a result of increased costs associated '
 'with retaining the necessary land use.')
- natural_disaster

('We use significant amounts of steel, petroleum products and other raw '
 'materials in various pieces of mining equipment, supplies and materials, '
 'including the roof bolts required by the room and pillar method of mining.')
- customer_orientation

('There may be acts of nature or terrorist attacks or threats that could also '
 'impact the future costs of raw materials.')
- natural_disaster

('Future volatility in the price of steel, petroleum products or other raw '
 'materials will impact our operational expenses and could result in '
 'significant fluctuations to our profitability.')
- customer_orientation

('We will be prohibited from making cash distributions: Various limitations in '
 'our debt agreements may reduce our ability to incur additional indebtedness, '
 'to engage in some transactions and to capitalize on business opportunities.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('The failure to maintain or the inability to acquire sufficient surety bonds, '
 'as required by state and federal laws, could subject us to fines and '
 'penalties and result in the loss of our mining permits.')
- litigation

('If we were to become subject to entity-level taxation for federal or state '
 'tax purposes, our cash available for distribution to you would be '
 'substantially reduced.')
- taxes

('The anticipated after-tax benefit of an investment in our units depends '
 'largely on our being treated as a partnership for federal income tax '
 'purposes.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Despite the fact that we are a limited partnership under Delaware law, it is '
 'possible in certain circumstances for a partnership such as ours to be '
 'treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Although we do not believe, based upon our current operations, that we are '
 'so treated, a change in our business (or a change in current law) could '
 'cause us to be treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes or '
 'otherwise subject us to taxation as an entity.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('If we were treated as a corporation for federal income tax purposes, we '
 'would pay federal income tax on our taxable income at the corporate tax '
 'rate, which is currently a maximum of 35% and would likely pay state income '
 'tax at varying rates.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Distributions to you would generally be taxed again as corporate '
 'distributions, and no income, gains, losses, deductions or credits would '
 'flow through to you.')
- taxes

('Current law may change, causing us to be treated as a corporation for '
 'federal income tax purposes or otherwise subjecting us to entity-level '
 'taxation.')
- taxes

('At the federal level, legislation has recently been considered that would '
 'have eliminated partnership tax treatment for certain publicly traded '
 'partnerships.')
- shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('At the state level, because of widespread state budget deficits and other '
 'reasons, several states are evaluating ways to subject partnerships to '
 'entity-level taxation through the imposition of state income, franchise or '
 'other forms of taxation.')
- taxes

('Our partnership agreement provides that if a law is enacted or existing law '
 'is modified or interpreted in a manner that subjects us to taxation as a '
 'corporation or otherwise subjects us to entity-level taxation for federal, '
 'state or local income tax purposes, the minimum quarterly distribution '
 'amount and the target distribution amounts may be adjusted to reflect the '
 'impact of that law on us.')
- shareholder_affiliation, litigation, supply_chain_problems, taxes

('If the IRS were to contest the federal income tax positions we take, it may '
 'adversely impact the market for our common units, and the costs of any such '
 'contest would reduce cash available for distribution to our unitholders.')
- taxes

('We have not requested a ruling from the IRS with respect to our treatment as '
 'a partnership for federal income tax purposes.')
- taxes

('It may be necessary to resort to administrative or court proceedings to '
 'sustain some or all of the positions we take.')
- litigation

('Moreover, the costs of any contest between us and the IRS will result in a '
 'reduction in cash available for distribution to our unitholders and thus '
 'will be borne indirectly by our unitholders.')
- taxes

('Even if you do not receive any cash distributions from us, you will be '
 'required to pay taxes on your share of our taxable income.')
- taxes

('You will be required to pay federal income taxes and, in some cases, state '
 'and local income taxes, on your share of our taxable income, whether or not '
 'you receive cash distributions from us.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('You may not receive cash distributions from us equal to your share of our '
 'taxable income or even equal to the actual tax liability that result from '
 'your share of our taxable income.')
- taxes

('Because distributions in excess of your allocable share of our net taxable '
 'income decrease your tax basis in your units, the amount, if any, of such '
 'prior excess distributions with respect to the units you sell will, in '
 'effect, become taxable income to you if you sell such units at a price '
 'greater than your tax basis therein, even if the price you receive is less '
 'than your original cost.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems, taxes

('In addition, because the amount realized includes a unitholders share of our '
 'non-recourse liabilities, if you sell your units, you may incur a tax '
 'liability in excess of the amount of cash you receive from the sale.')
- taxes

('Tax-exempt entities and non-U.S. persons owning our units face unique tax '
 'issues that may result in adverse tax consequences to them.')
- taxes

('For example, virtually all of our income allocated to organizations exempt '
 'from federal income tax, including individual retirement accounts and other '
 'retirement plans, will be unrelated business taxable income and will be '
 'taxable to them.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('Distributions to non-U.S. persons will be reduced by withholding taxes at '
 'the highest applicable effective tax rate, and non-U.S. persons will be '
 'required to file U.S. federal income tax returns and pay tax on their share '
 'of our taxable income.')
- taxes

('A successful IRS challenge to those positions could adversely affect the '
 'amount of tax benefits available to you.')
- taxes

('It also could affect the timing of these tax benefits or the amount of gain '
 'from your sale of units and could have a negative impact on the value of our '
 'units or result in audit adjustments to your tax returns.')
- taxes

('The IRS may challenge this treatment, which could change the allocation of '
 'items of income, gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.')
- taxes

('If the IRS were to challenge this method or new Treasury Regulations were '
 'issued, we may be required to change the allocation of items of income, '
 'gain, loss and deduction among our unitholders.')
- taxes

('Because a unitholder whose units are loaned to a short seller to cover a '
 'short sale of units may be considered as having disposed of the loaned '
 'units, he may no longer be treated for tax purposes as a partner with '
 'respect to those units during the period of the loan to the short seller and '
 'the unitholder may recognize gain or loss from such disposition.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('Moreover, during the period of the loan to the short seller, any of our '
 'income, gain, loss or deduction with respect to those units may not be '
 'reportable by the unitholder and any cash distributions received by the '
 'unitholder as to those units could be fully taxable as ordinary income.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('Unitholders desiring to assure their status as partners and avoid the risk '
 'of gain recognition from a loan to a short seller are urged to modify any '
 'applicable brokerage account agreements to prohibit their brokers from '
 'borrowing their units.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('When we issue additional units or engage in certain other transactions, we '
 'determine the fair market value of our assets and allocate any unrealized '
 'gain or loss attributable to our assets to the capital accounts of our '
 'unitholders and our general partner.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('In that case, there may be a shift of income, gain, loss and deduction '
 'between certain unitholders and the general partner, which may be '
 'unfavorable to such unitholders.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('Moreover, under our valuation methods, subsequent purchasers of common units '
 'may have a greater portion of their Internal Revenue Code Section 743(b) '
 'adjustment allocated to our intangible assets and a lesser portion allocated '
 'to our tangible assets.')
- customer_orientation

('The IRS may challenge our valuation methods, or our allocation of the '
 'Section 743(b) adjustment attributable to our tangible and intangible '
 'assets, and allocations of income, gain, loss and deduction between the '
 'general partner and certain of our unitholders.')
- taxes

('A successful IRS challenge to these methods or allocations could adversely '
 'affect the amount of taxable income or loss being allocated to our '
 'unitholders.')
- taxes

('It also could affect the amount of gain from our unitholders sale of common '
 'units and could have a negative impact on the value of the common units or '
 'result in audit adjustments to our unitholders tax returns without the '
 'benefit of additional deductions.')
- taxes

('The sale or exchange of 50% or more of our capital and profits interests '
 'within a twelve-month period will result in the termination of our '
 'partnership for federal income tax purposes.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('We will be considered to have terminated our partnership for federal income '
 'tax purposes if there is a sale or exchange of 50% or more of the total '
 'interests in our capital and profits within a twelve-month period.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('Our termination would, among other things, result in the closing of our '
 'taxable year for all unitholders, which would result in us filing two tax '
 'returns (and our unitholders could receive two Schedules K-1) for one fiscal '
 'year and could result in a deferral of depreciation deductions allowable in '
 'computing our taxable income.')
- taxes

('In the case of a unitholder reporting on a taxable year other than a fiscal '
 'year ending December 31, the closing of our taxable year may also result in '
 'more than twelve months of our taxable income or loss being includable in '
 'his taxable income for the year of termination.')
- taxes

('A termination does not affect our classification as a partnership for '
 'federal income tax purposes.')
- taxes

('You will likely be subject to state and local taxes and income tax return '
 'filing requirements in jurisdictions where you do not live as a result of '
 'investing in our units.')
- taxes

('In addition to federal income taxes, you will likely be subject to other '
 'taxes, such as state and local income taxes, unincorporated business taxes '
 'and estate, inheritance or intangible taxes that are imposed by the various '
 'jurisdictions in which we do business or own property.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation, taxes

('You will likely be required to file state and local income tax returns and '
 'pay state and local income taxes in some or all of these various '
 'jurisdictions.')
- taxes

('In turn, the prices we receive for our coal depend upon factors beyond our '
 'control, including the following: Declines in the prices we receive for our '
 'coal could adversely affect our profitability and the value of our coal '
 'reserves.')
- supply_chain_problems

('Certain factors beyond our control, including those listed below, could '
 'disrupt our coal mining operations, reduce our production or increase our '
 'operating costs: If any of these conditions or events occurs, particularly '
 'at our Black Thunder mining complex, our coal mining operations may be '
 'disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or our '
 'operating costs could increase significantly.')
- hiring_employees, natural_disaster

('Our coal mining operations use significant amounts of steel, diesel fuel, '
 'rubber tires and other mining and industrial supplies.')
- carbon_emissions

('If the prices of mining and other industrial supplies, particularly '
 'steel-based supplies, diesel fuel and rubber tires, increase, our operating '
 'costs could be negatively affected.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions

('In addition, if we are unable to procure these supplies, our coal mining '
 'operations may be disrupted or we could experience a delay or halt in our '
 'production.')
- customer_orientation

('Efficient coal mining using modern techniques and equipment requires skilled '
 'workers with experience and proficiency in multiple mining tasks.')
- hiring_employees

('In addition, employee turnover rates in the coal industry have increased '
 'during this period as coal producers compete for skilled personnel.')
- hiring_employees

('Because of the shortage of trained coal miners in recent years, we have '
 'operated certain facilities without full staff and have hired novice miners, '
 'who are required to be accompanied by experienced workers as a safety '
 'precaution.')
- hiring_employees

('In addition, we purchase coal from third parties that we sell to our '
 'customers.')
- customer_orientation

('Operational difficulties at contractor-operated mines or mines operated by '
 'third parties from whom we purchase coal, changes in demand for contract '
 'miners from other coal producers and other factors beyond our control could '
 'affect the availability, pricing, and quality of coal produced for or '
 'purchased by us.')
- customer_orientation

('Disruptions in the quantities of coal produced for or purchased by us could '
 'impair our ability to fill our customer orders or require us to purchase '
 'coal from other sources in order to satisfy those orders.')
- customer_orientation

('If we are unable to fill a customer order or if we are required to purchase '
 'coal from other sources in order to satisfy a customer order, we could lose '
 'existing customers and our operating costs could increase.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('We depend upon barge, ship, rail, truck and belt transportation systems to '
 'deliver coal to our customers.')
- supply_chain_problems

('Disruptions in transportation services due to weather-related problems, '
 'mechanical difficulties, strikes, lockouts, bottlenecks, and other events '
 'could impair our ability to supply coal to our customers.')
- customer_orientation, natural_disaster, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('As we do not have long-term contracts with transportation providers to '
 'ensure consistent and reliable service, decreased performance levels over '
 'longer periods of time could cause our customers to look to other sources '
 'for their coal needs.')
- supply_chain_problems

('In addition, increases in transportation costs, including the price of '
 'gasoline and diesel fuel, could make coal a less competitive source of '
 'energy when compared to alternative fuels or could make coal produced in one '
 'region of the United States less competitive than coal produced in other '
 'regions of the United States or abroad.')
- customer_orientation, carbon_emissions, supply_chain_problems

('If we experience disruptions in our transportation services or if '
 'transportation costs increase significantly and we are unable to find '
 'alternative transportation providers, our coal mining operations may be '
 'disrupted, we could experience a delay or halt of production or our '
 'profitability could decrease significantly.')
- customer_orientation, natural_disaster, supply_chain_problems

('Certain risks, including those listed below, could cause us not to realize '
 'the benefits we expect to occur as a result of those acquisitions: We sell a '
 'portion of our coal under long-term coal supply agreements, which we define '
 'as contracts with terms greater than one year.')
- customer_orientation

('Changes in the coal industry may cause some of our customers not to renew, '
 'extend or enter into new long-term coal supply agreements with us or to '
 'enter into agreements to purchase fewer tons of coal than in the past or on '
 'different terms or prices.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('In addition, uncertainty caused by federal and state regulations, including '
 'the Clean Air Act, could deter our customers from entering into long-term '
 'coal supply agreements.')
- customer_orientation

('Because we sell a portion of our coal production under long-term coal supply '
 'agreements, our ability to capitalize on more favorable market prices may be '
 'limited.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Conversely, at any given time we are subject to fluctuations in market '
 'prices for the quantities of coal that we have produced but which we have '
 'not committed to sell.')
- customer_orientation

('Our profitability may be adversely affected if we are unable to sell '
 'uncommitted production at favorable prices or at all.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('For the year ended December 31, 2007, we derived approximately 25.3% of our '
 'total coal revenues from sales to our three largest customers, Tennessee '
 'Valley Authority, Ameren Corporation and Intermountain Power Agency, and '
 'approximately 49.5% of our total coal revenues from sales to our ten largest '
 'customers.')
- customer_orientation, taxes

('At December 31, 2007, we had coal supply agreements with those ten customers '
 'that expire at various times from 2008 to 2017.')
- customer_orientation

('We expect to renew, extend or enter into new long-term coal supply '
 'agreements with those and other customers.')
- customer_orientation

('However, we may be unsuccessful in obtaining long-term coal supply '
 'agreements with those customers, and those customers may discontinue '
 'purchasing coal from us.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('If any of those customers, particularly any of our three largest customers, '
 'was to significantly reduce the quantities of coal it purchases from us, or '
 'if we are unable to sell coal to those customers on terms as favorable to us '
 'as the terms under our current long-term coal supply agreements, our '
 'profitability could suffer significantly.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('We have limited protection during adverse economic conditions and may face '
 'economic penalties if we are unable to satisfy certain quality '
 'specifications under our long-term coal supply agreements.')
- carbon_emissions

('Most of our long-term coal supply agreements also contain provisions '
 'requiring us to deliver coal that satisfies certain quality specifications, '
 'such as heat value, sulfur content, ash content, hardness and ash fusion '
 'temperature.')
- supply_chain_problems

('These provisions in our long-term coal supply agreements could result in '
 'negative economic consequences to us, including price adjustments, '
 'purchasing replacement coal in a higher-priced open market, the rejection of '
 'deliveries or, in the extreme, contract termination.')
- customer_orientation

('Our profitability may be negatively affected if we are unable to seek '
 'protection during adverse economic conditions or if we incur financial or '
 'other economic penalties as a result of these provisions of our long-term '
 'supply agreements.')
- carbon_emissions

('We have agreed to guarantee Magnums obligations to supply coal under certain '
 'coal sales contracts that we sold to Magnum.')
- customer_orientation

('If Magnum cannot supply the coal required under these coal sales contracts, '
 'we would be required to purchase coal on the open market or supply coal from '
 'our existing operations in order to satisfy our obligations under these '
 'contracts.')
- customer_orientation

('Future terrorist attacks, rumors or threats of war, actual conflicts '
 'involving the United States or its allies, or military or trade disruptions '
 'affecting our customers may significantly affect our operations and those of '
 'our customers.')
- customer_orientation

('As a result, we could experience delays or losses in transportation and '
 'deliveries of coal to our customers, decreased sales of our coal or extended '
 'collections from our customers.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Risks Related to Environmental and Other Regulations Governmental '
 'regulations, including those related to the matters listed below, have '
 'significant effects on the coal mining industry: The costs, liabilities and '
 'requirements associated with these regulations may be significant and '
 'time-consuming and may delay commencement or continuation of exploration or '
 'production operations.')
- customer_orientation

('Failure to comply with these regulations may result in the assessment of '
 'administrative, civil and criminal penalties, the imposition of cleanup and '
 'site restoration costs and liens, the issuance of injunctions to limit or '
 'cease operations, the suspension or revocation of permits and other '
 'enforcement measures that could have the effect of limiting production from '
 'our mining operations.')
- litigation

('We may also incur costs and liabilities resulting from claims for damages to '
 'property or injury to persons arising from our operations.')
- litigation

('New legislation or administrative regulations (or new judicial '
 'interpretations or administrative enforcement of existing laws and '
 'regulations), including proposals related to the protection of the '
 'environment that would further regulate and tax our business or our '
 'customers, may also require us or our customers to change operations '
 'significantly or incur increased costs.')
- customer_orientation, litigation

('Coal contains impurities, including but not limited to sulfur, mercury, '
 'chlorine, carbon and other elements or compounds, many of which are released '
 'into the air when coal is burned.')
- carbon_emissions

('Stricter environmental regulations of emissions from coal-fueled power '
 'plants could increase the costs of using coal thereby reducing demand for '
 'coal as a fuel source and the volume and price of our coal sales.')
- carbon_emissions

('Stricter regulations could make coal a less attractive fuel alternative in '
 'the planning and building of power plants in the future.')
- carbon_emissions

('Proposed reductions in emissions of mercury, sulfur dioxides, nitrogen '
 'oxides, particulate matter or greenhouse gases may require the installation '
 'of costly emission control technology or the implementation of other '
 'measures, including trading of emission allowances and switching to other '
 'fuels.')
- carbon_emissions

('For example, in order to meet the federal Clean Air Act limits for sulfur '
 'dioxide emissions from power plants, coal users may need to install '
 'scrubbers, use sulfur dioxide emission allowances (some of which they may '
 'purchase), blend high sulfur coal with low-sulfur coal or switch to other '
 'fuels.')
- carbon_emissions

('Reductions in mercury emissions required by certain states will likely '
 'require some power plants to install new equipment, at substantial cost, or '
 'discourage the use of certain coals containing higher levels of mercury.')
- carbon_emissions

('Recent and new proposals calling for reductions in emissions of carbon '
 'dioxide and other greenhouse gases could significantly increase the cost of '
 'operating existing coal-fueled power plants and could inhibit construction '
 'of new coal-fueled power plants.')
- carbon_emissions

('Existing or proposed legislation focusing on emissions enacted by the United '
 'States or individual states could make coal a less attractive fuel '
 'alternative for our customers and could impose a tax or fee on the producer '
 'of the coal.')
- customer_orientation

('If our customers decrease the volume of coal they purchase from us or switch '
 'to alternative fuels as a result of existing or future environmental '
 'regulations aimed at reducing emissions, our operations and financial '
 'results could be adversely impacted.')
- carbon_emissions

('We could become subject to claims for toxic torts, natural resource damages '
 'and other damages as well as for the investigation and clean up of soil, '
 'surface water, groundwater, and other media.')
- litigation, carbon_emissions

('Such claims may arise, for example, out of conditions at sites that we '
 'currently own or operate, as well as at sites that we previously owned or '
 'operated, or may acquire.')
- hiring_employees

('Our liability for such claims may be joint and several, so that we may be '
 'held responsible for more than our share of the contamination or other '
 'damages, or even for the entire share.')
- litigation

('Structural failure of an impoundment can result in extensive damage to the '
 'environment and natural resources, such as bodies of water that the coal '
 'slurry reaches, as well as liability for related personal injuries and '
 'property damages, and injuries to wildlife.')
- natural_disaster, litigation, carbon_emissions

('If one of our impoundments were to fail, we could be subject to substantial '
 'claims for the resulting environmental contamination and associated '
 'liability, as well as for fines and penalties.')
- litigation

('We may not be able to increase the price we charge for coal to cover higher '
 'production costs without reducing customer demand for our coal.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('You should see Item 3 Legal Proceedings beginning on page 33 for more '
 'information about the litigation described above..')
- litigation

("At such times we have bought DRAMs in excess of our customers' needs in "
 'order to ensure future allocations from DRAM manufacturers.')
- customer_orientation

('In the event of a shortage, we may not be able to obtain sufficient DRAMs to '
 "meet customers' needs in the short term, and we may have to invest "
 'substantial working capital resources in order to meet long term customer '
 'needs.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('At the present time, the market is one of oversupply, and we seek to '
 'maintain a minimum inventory while meeting the needs of customers.')
- customer_orientation

('Certain of our memory products are designed to be used with proprietary '
 'computer systems built by various OEM manufacturers.')
- customer_orientation

('We are presently licensed by Sun Microsystems and Silicon Graphics to sell '
 'memory products for certain of their products.')
- customer_orientation

('During fiscal 2008, the largest ten customers accounted for approximately '
 "43% of the Company's revenues, with one customer accounting for "
 "approximately 14% of the Company's revenues.")
- customer_orientation, taxes

('There can be no assurance that one or more of these customers will not cease '
 'or materially decrease their business with the Company in the future and '
 'that our financial performance will not be adversely affected thereby.')
- customer_orientation

(" SALES DIRECTLY TO OEM'S CAN MAKE OUR REVENUES, EARNINGS, BACKLOG AND "
 'INVENTORY LEVELS UNEVEN.')
- taxes

('Revenue and earnings from OEM sales may become uneven as order sizes are '
 'typically large and often a completed order cannot be shipped until released '
 'by the OEM, e.g., to meet a "just in time" inventory requirement.')
- taxes

('In such case, revenues and earnings could decline for the period and '
 'inventory and backlog could increase.')
- taxes

'In the compatibles market we sell our products at a lower price than OEMs.'
- customer_orientation

('Customers will often pay some premium for the "name brand" product when '
 'buying additional memory and OEMs seek to exploit this tendency by having a '
 'high profit margin on memory products.')
- customer_orientation

('While we believe that with our manufacturing efficiency and low overhead we '
 'still would be able to compete favorably with OEMs, in such an event profit '
 'margins and earnings would be adversely affected.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

' WE FACE COMPETITION FROM DRAM MANUFACTURERS.'
- customer_orientation

('DRAM manufacturers not only sell their product as discreet devices, but also '
 'as finished memory modules.')
- customer_orientation

('There can be no assurance that DRAM manufacturers will not expand their '
 'market and customer base, and our profit margins and earnings could be '
 'adversely affected.')
- customer_orientation

'THE MARKET FOR OUR PRODUCTS MAY NARROW OVER TIME.'
- customer_orientation

('The principal market for our memory products consists of the manufacturers, '
 'buyers and owners of workstations and enterprise servers, classes of '
 'machines lying between large mainframe computers and personal computers.')
- customer_orientation

('The competition for the supply of after-market memory products in the PC '
 'industry is very competitive and to the extent we compete in this market we '
 'can be expected to have lower profit margins.')
- customer_orientation

('In addition to selling server memory systems, we develop, manufacturer and '
 'market a variety of memory products for motherboards that are Intel or AMD '
 'processor based.')
- customer_orientation, supply_chain_problems

('Many of these products are sold to OEMs and incorporated into computers and '
 'other equipment.')
- customer_orientation

'This is an intensely competitive market with high volumes but lower margins.'
- customer_orientation

("As a result, the Company's revenues and expenses may be adversely affected, "
 'from time to time, by changes in the relationship of the dollar to various '
 'foreign currencies on foreign exchange markets.')
- customer_orientation

('This statute has the effect of prohibiting any "business combination" - a '
 'very broadly defined term - with any "interested shareholder" unless the '
 'transaction is approved by the Board of Directors at a time before the '
 'interested shareholder had acquired a 10% ownership interest.')
- customer_orientation, shareholder_affiliation

('This prohibition of "business combinations" is for five years after the '
 'shareholder became an "interested shareholder" and continues after that time '
 'period subject to certain exceptions.')
- shareholder_affiliation

('A practical consequence of this statute is that a hostile acquisition of our '
 'company is unlikely to occur and hostile transactions which might be of '
 'benefit to our shareholders are unlikely to occur..')
- shareholder_affiliation