Introduction:
  + Thank you very much in advance for annotating this dataset 
      consisted of 845 sentences sampled from the SEC 10-K filings, 
      specifically, the Item 1A Risk Factors section. The goal of 
      this dataset is to help train a binary classifier to 
      identify the actions taken by a mining company that are dealing
      with risks. These risks can be environmental, social, economical, etc.
      And the actions can be complying with environment regulations, 
      engaging with labor union, or adjusting expansion strategies.
      Below are the guidelines that help you annotate this dataset. 
      Please read through ALL of the instructions before annotation.

Annotation guideline:
  + To begin with, we want to find sentences that describes the companies' 
      actions. Note that the action don't necessarily need to relate to 
      risks directly (e.g., the third example). We just want to find a general
      forms or syntactic structures of the utterances stating what they did.
      An overarching guideline is to cover as many TYPES of action statements 
      as possible. The action sentences only composed of a very small subset
      of the dataset: ~10%. But please note that precision is still highly important!

  + We start with a few positive examples and explain why they are
      considered action sentences.
      - Sample: During 2012, we started negotiations with all the eight unions.
      - Explaination: Clearly the sentence states that the company takes 
          actions to deal with labor issues.

      - Sample: During 2020 our objectives are to complete an agreement with 
          the local community, to conduct surface exploration, and if warranted, 
          conduct a drilling program.
      - Explaination: Although this is an objective, this sentence declared a 
          plan to be taken. So, it should be considered as action as well.

      - Sample: In January 2010 we paid all dividends in arrears.
      - Explaination: This does not seem to be directly related to a risk, but this 
          is a sentence documenting their action: "paid all dividends."

  + Then, here are some negative examples and explaination of why they are NOT
      action sentences. Most negative samples are easy to identify. But the below 
      samples look like positive samples but in reality negative ones.
      - Sample: In such a case, we would be unable to complete our business plan 
          and our future shareholders may lose their entire investment.
      - Explaination: This sentence only states the risks they are facing rather 
          than the actions they have taken or will be taking.

      - Sample: We may also become subject to significant liability for pollution, 
          cave-ins or hazards, which we cannot insure or which we may elect not to insure.
      - Explaination: One type of negative case usually contains the term `may`, 
          indicating the EXPECTED risks and consequences faced by the company.

      - Sample: We believe our operations can provide valuable benefits to surrounding 
          communities, in terms of direct employment, training and skills development and 
          other benefits associated with ongoing payment of taxes.
      - Explaination: Firstly, this express the BELIEVE of the company. But more importantly, 
          the sentence does not mention any SPECIFIC action they are taking; they merely 
          use the term `operations`, which is too general to be considered their actions.

      - Sample: The EPA has finalized a rule to regulate GHG emissions from new power plants.
      - Explaination: An action not taken by the company but other entities like government agencies. We admit 
          that there will be some noise because these agencies are usually documented in abbreviation
          forms. However, it may be possible to derive from the semantic of the sentences that the 
          entities are regulatory institutions. For example, they enact certain rules.

Hard positive:
  + If the company is REQUIRED to do something, the sentence is 
      still considered an action sentence. This usually happens
      when the company states that they need to comply with 
      certain regulations like environment protection laws.
      - E.g., We have been required to dedicate more time and money 
          to compliance and remediation activities.
  
  + Sometimes, for a very long sentence describing the risk a 
      company faces, they may phrase it in the form, "Although 
      we have [THEIR ACTIONS USED TO CONTROL THE RISK], we still ..."
      In this case, the `Although` part, i.e., actions in the 
      subordinate clause, is still considered mentioning the company's 
      action towards the risk. Still, make sure the actions are 
      taken by the companies, not other entities like government.
      - E.g., Although we attempt to secure contractual rights that will 
          permit us to protect our interests, there can be no assurance 
          that such rights will always be available or sufficient, or that 
          our efforts will be successful in achieving timely or favorable 
          results or in affecting the operations of the properties in which we 
          have royalty interests in ways that would be beneficial to 
          our stockholders.

  + Actions may be expressed through NEGATIVE sentences as well. These 
      statements can express the altitude towards an event or the position
      the company sets.
      - E.g., Sumitomo MAY NOT WISH TO CONTINUE the San Cristobal 
          Management Services Agreement.

Notes:
  + The dataset is stored in CSV format. `label` is the column to be annotated, and 
      `text` is the sentence to consider. Other columns are mainly meta data which 
      can be ignored.
  + There should be 845 sentences in total.
  + If you consider a sentence stating the actions, please enter a `1` in the label 
      column; otherwise, give it a `0`.
  + You can annotate with what ever tool you prefer. Excel could work but I personally 
      consider an open source python-based annotation tool called `doccano` works better.
      The link to the GitHub repo is here: < https://github.com/doccano/doccano >
      
